[FLINK-18801][docs][python] Add a "10 minutes to Table API" document under the "Python API" -> "User Guide" -> "Table API" section. (#13273)
apache/flink: docs/dev/python/user-guide/table/10_minutes_to_table_api.md

to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

This document is a short introduction to PyFlink Table API, which is used to help novice users quickly understand the basic usage of PyFlink Table API.
For advanced usage, please refer to other documents in this User Guide.

* This will be replaced by the TOC
{:toc}

Common Structure of Python Table API Program 
--------------------------------------------

All Table API and SQL programs for batch and streaming follow the same pattern. The following code example shows the common structure of Table API and SQL programs.

{% highlight python %}

from pyflink.table import EnvironmentSettings, StreamTableEnvironment

# 1. create a TableEnvironment

> table_env = StreamTableEnvironment.create(environment_settings=EnvironmentSettings.new_instance().in_streaming_mode().use_blink_planner().build()) 

Author: I'll adjust them to make it more readable.

# create a blink batch TableEnvironment
table_env = BatchTableEnvironment.create(environment_settings=EnvironmentSettings.new_instance().in_batch_mode().use_blink_planner().build())

# create a flink streaming TableEnvironment
table_env = StreamTableEnvironment.create(environment_settings=EnvironmentSettings.new_instance().in_streaming_mode().use_old_planner().build())

# create a flink batch TableEnvironment
table_env = BatchTableEnvironment.create(environment_settings=EnvironmentSettings.new_instance().in_batch_mode().use_old_planner().build())

{% endhighlight %}

The `TableEnvironment` is responsible for:

* Creating `Table`s
* Registering `Table`s to the catalog
* Executing SQL queries
* Registering user-defined (scalar, table, or aggregation) functions
* Offering further configuration options.
* Add Python dependencies to support running Python UDF on remote cluster
* Executing jobs.

Currently there are 2 planners available: flink planner and blink planner.

You should explicitly set which planner to use in the current program.
We recommend using the blink planner as much as possible. 

> The blink planner is more powerful in functionality and performance, and the flink planner is reserved for compatibility.

Reviewer: I'm not sure how soon the legacy planner will be removed, but if it is to be removed for 1.12, then I wonder if we even need to explain this here.

Author: I'll remove this line.

{% top %}

> Create Tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating Tables
```

-------------

`Table` is the core component of the Table API. A `Table` represents a intermediate result set during a Table API Job.

> A `Table` is always bound to a specific `TableEnvironment`. It is not possible to combine tables of different TableEnvironments in same query, e.g., to join or union them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Table` is always bound to a specific `TableEnvironment`. It is not possible to combine tables from different TableEnvironments in same query, e.g., to join or union them.
```

> ### Create From A List Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create using a List Object
```

table.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
   id   data
0   1     Hi
1   2  Hello
{% endhighlight %}

By default the table schema is extracted from the data automatically. 

If the table schema is not as your wish, you can specify it manually:

{% highlight python %}

table_without_schema = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
# by default the type of the "id" column is 64 bit int
default_type = table_without_schema.to_pandas()["id"].dtype
print('By default the type of the "id" column is %s.' % default_type)

from pyflink.table import DataTypes
table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')],
                                DataTypes.ROW([DataTypes.FIELD("id", DataTypes.TINYINT()),
                                               DataTypes.FIELD("data", DataTypes.STRING())]))
# now the type of the "id" column is 8 bit int
type = table.to_pandas()["id"].dtype
print('Now the type of the "id" column is %s.' % type)

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
By default the type of the "id" column is int64.
Now the type of the "id" column is int8.
{% endhighlight %}

> ### Create From Connectors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create using a Connector
```

> You can create a Table from connector DDL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a Table using connector DDL:
```

{% highlight python %}

table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE random_source (
        id BIGINT, 
        data TINYINT) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'datagen',
        'fields.id.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.id.start'='1',
        'fields.id.end'='3',
        'fields.data.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.data.start'='4',
        'fields.data.end'='6'
    )
""")
table = table_env.from_path("random_source")
table.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
   id  data
0   2     5
1   1     4
2   3     6
{% endhighlight %}

> ### Create From Catalog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create using a Catalog
```

A TableEnvironment maintains a map of catalogs of tables which are created with an identifier.

> The tables in catalog may either be temporary, and tied to the lifecycle of a single Flink session, or permanent, and visible across multiple Flink sessions and clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tables in a catalog may either be temporary, and tied to the lifecycle of a single Flink session, or permanent, and visible across multiple Flink sessions and clusters.
```

> The tables in catalog may either be temporary, and tied to the lifecycle of a single Flink session, or permanent, and visible across multiple Flink sessions and clusters.

Reviewer 2: It seems that this is not updated in the PR.

> The tables and views created via SQL DDL, e.g. "create table ..." and "create view ..." is also stored in catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tables and views created via SQL DDL, e.g. "create table ..." and "create view ..." are also stored in a catalog.
```

> You can also access the tables in catalog via SQL directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can directly access the tables in a catalog via SQL.
```

> If you want to use the catalog tables in Table API, you can use the "from_path" method to create the Table API objects from catalog:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use tables from a catalog with the Table API, you can use the "from_path" method to create the Table API objects:
```

> If you want to use the catalog tables in Table API, you can use the "from_path" method to create the Table API objects from catalog:

Reviewer 2: It seems that this is not updated in the PR.

{% highlight python %}

# prepare the catalog

> # register Table API tables to catalog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# register Table API tables in the catalog
```

table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
table_env.create_temporary_view('source_table', table)

# create Table API table from catalog
new_table = table_env.from_path('source_table')
new_table.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
   id   data
0   1     Hi
1   2  Hello
{% endhighlight %}

{% top %}

Write Queries
-------------

> ### Write Table API Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Writing Table API Queries
```

> The `Table` object offers many methods to apply relational operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Table` object offers many methods for applying relational operations. 
```

> These methods return a new `Table` object, which represents the result of applying the relational operation on the input `Table`. 
> i.e. you can make a method chaining when using Table API.
> Some relational operations are composed of multiple method calls such as table.groupBy(...).select(), where groupBy(...) specifies a grouping of table, and select(...) the projection on the grouping of table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These methods return new `Table` objects representing the result of applying the relational operations on the input `Table`. 
These relational operations may be composed of multiple method calls, such as `table.groupBy(...).select(...)`.
```

> The [Table API]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/tableApi.html) document describes all Table API operations that are supported on streaming and batch tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Table API]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/tableApi.html) documentation describes all Table API operations that are supported on streaming and batch tables.
```

> The [Table API]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/tableApi.html) document describes all Table API operations that are supported on streaming and batch tables.

Reviewer 2: It seems that this is not updated in the PR.

The following example shows a simple Table API aggregation query:

{% highlight python %}

# using batch table environment to execute the queries
from pyflink.table import EnvironmentSettings, BatchTableEnvironment
table_env = BatchTableEnvironment.create(environment_settings=EnvironmentSettings.new_instance().in_batch_mode().use_blink_planner().build())

orders = table_env.from_elements([('Jack', 'FRANCE', 10), ('Rose', 'ENGLAND', 30), ('Jack', 'FRANCE', 20)],
                                 ['name', 'country', 'revenue'])
# compute revenue for all customers from France
revenue = orders \
    .select("name, country, revenue") \
    .where("country === 'FRANCE'") \
    .group_by("name") \
    .select("name, revenue.sum AS rev_sum")
    
revenue.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
   name  rev_sum
0  Jack       30
{% endhighlight %}

### Write SQL Queries

> Flink's SQL integration is based on [Apache Calcite](https://calcite.apache.org), which implements the SQL standard. SQL queries are specified as regular Strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flink's SQL integration is based on [Apache Calcite](https://calcite.apache.org), which implements the SQL standard. SQL queries are specified as Strings.
```

> The [SQL]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/sql/index.html) document describes Flink's SQL support for streaming and batch tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [SQL]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/sql/index.html) documentation describes Flink's SQL support for streaming and batch tables.
```

The following example shows a simple SQL aggregation query:

{% highlight python %}

> # using stream table environment to execute the queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# use a StreamTableEnvironment to execute the queries
```

from pyflink.table import EnvironmentSettings, StreamTableEnvironment
table_env = StreamTableEnvironment.create(environment_settings=EnvironmentSettings.new_instance().in_streaming_mode().use_blink_planner().build())

table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE random_source (
        id BIGINT, 
        data TINYINT) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'datagen',
        'fields.id.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.id.start'='1',
        'fields.id.end'='8',
        'fields.data.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.data.start'='4',
        'fields.data.end'='11'
    )
""")

table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE print_sink (
        id BIGINT, 
        data_sum TINYINT) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'print'
    )
""")

table_env.execute_sql("""
    INSERT INTO print_sink
        SELECT id, sum(data) as data_sum FROM 
            (SELECT id / 2 as id, data FROM random_source)
        WHERE id > 1
        GROUP BY id
""").get_job_client().get_job_execution_result().result()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
2> +I(4,11)
6> +I(2,8)
8> +I(3,10)
6> -U(2,8)
8> -U(3,10)
6> +U(2,15)
8> +U(3,19)
{% endhighlight %}

This output may be difficult to understand. 

> In fact, this is the change logs received by the print sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In fact, this shows the change logs received by the print sink.
```

> The output format of the change log is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output format of a change log is:
```

{% highlight python %}
{subtask id}> {message type}{string format of the value}
{% endhighlight %}
For example, "2> +I(4,11)" means this message comes from the 2nd subtask, and "+I" means it is a insert message. "(4, 11)" is the content of the message.

> In addition, "-U" means a retract record (i.e. update-before), which means this message should be deleted or retracted from sink. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, "-U" means a retract record (i.e. update-before), which means this message should be deleted or retracted from the sink. 
```

> "+U" means this is an update record (i.e. update-after), which means this message should be updated or inserted to sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"+U" means this is an update record (i.e. update-after), which means this message should be updated or inserted by the sink.
```

> So we can get such a result set from the change logs above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, we get this result from the change logs above:
```

{% highlight text %}
(4, 11)
(2, 15) 
(3, 19)
{% endhighlight %}

> ### Mix Table API and SQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mixing the Table API and SQL
```

The `Table` objects used in Table API and the tables used in SQL can be freely converted to each other.

> The following example shows how to use the `Table` object in SQL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use a `Table` object in SQL:
```

{% highlight python %}

# create a sink table to emit results
table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE table_sink (
        id BIGINT, 
        data VARCHAR) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'print'
    )
""")

> # convert the Table API table to SQL view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# convert the Table API table to a SQL view
```

table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
table_env.create_temporary_view('table_api_table', table)

# emit the Table API table
table_env.execute_sql("INSERT INTO table_sink SELECT * FROM table_api_table") \
    .get_job_client().get_job_execution_result().result()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
6> +I(1,Hi)
6> +I(2,Hello)
{% endhighlight %}

> And the following example shows how to use the SQL tables in Table API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And the following example shows how to use SQL tables in the Table API:
```

{% highlight python %}

# create a sql source table
table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE sql_source (
        id BIGINT, 
        data TINYINT) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'datagen',
        'fields.id.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.id.start'='1',
        'fields.id.end'='4',
        'fields.data.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.data.start'='4',
        'fields.data.end'='7'
    )
""")

# convert the sql table to Table API table
table = table_env.from_path("sql_source")

# or create the table from a sql query
table = table_env.sql_query("SELECT * FROM sql_source")

# emit the table
table.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

{% top %}

Emit Results
------------

> ### Emit to Variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Capturing Data in a Variable
```

> You can call "to_pandas" method to emit the data in a `Table` object to a pandas DataFrame:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can call the "to_pandas" method to emit the data from a `Table` object to a pandas DataFrame:
```

{% highlight python %}

table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
table.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
   id   data
0   1     Hi
1   2  Hello
{% endhighlight %}

> Note that "to_pandas" is not supported on flink planner, and not all data types can be emitted to pandas DataFrame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that "to_pandas" is not supported by the flink planner, and not all data types can be emitted to pandas DataFrames.
```

If the `TableEnvironment` is in streaming mode, calling "to_pandas" on the tables which contain retract messages (i.e. update-before) is also not supported.

> ### Emit to Single Sink Table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Emitting Results to One Sink Table
```

> You can call "execute_insert" method to emit the data in a `Table` object to a sink table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can call the "execute_insert" method to emit the data in a `Table` object to a sink table:
```

{% highlight python %}

table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE sink_table (
        id BIGINT, 
        data VARCHAR) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'print'
    )
""")

table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
table.execute_insert("sink_table").get_job_client().get_job_execution_result().result()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
6> +I(1,Hi)
6> +I(2,Hello)
{% endhighlight %}

> The equivalent SQL way is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This could also be done using SQL:
```

{% highlight python %}

table_env.create_temporary_view("table_source", table)
table_env.execute_sql("INSERT INTO sink_table SELECT * FROM table_source") \
    .get_job_client().get_job_execution_result().result()

{% endhighlight %}

> ### Emit to Multiple Sink Tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Emitting Results to Multiple Sink Tables
```

> You can use the `StatementSet` to emit the `Table`s to multiple sink tables in one job:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a `StatementSet` to emit the `Table`s to multiple sink tables in one job:
```

> You can use the `StatementSet` to emit the `Table`s to multiple sink tables in one job:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the `StatementSet` to emit a `Table`s to multiple sinks in one job:
```

{% highlight python %}

# prepare source tables and sink tables
table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
table_env.create_temporary_view("simple_source", table)
table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE first_sink_table (
        id BIGINT, 
        data VARCHAR) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'print'
    )
""")
table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE second_sink_table (
        id BIGINT, 
        data VARCHAR) 
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'print'
    )
""")

# create a statement set
statement_set = table_env.create_statement_set()

# accept a Table API table

> statement_set.add_insert("first_sink_table", table)

Reviewer: As someone who doesn't know the API very well, I don't understand what's happening here. Also, "accept" doesn't feel like the correct verb, but as I don't fully understand what this code is doing, I'm not sure what to suggest instead.

Author: I'll replace these comments with `# emit the "table" object to the "first_sink_table"` and `# emit the "simple_source" to the "second_sink_table" via a insert sql query`. Do these seem more readable?

# accept a insert sql query
statement_set.add_insert_sql("INSERT INTO second_sink_table SELECT * FROM simple_source")

# execute the statement set
statement_set.execute().get_job_client().get_job_execution_result().result()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
7> +I(1,Hi)
7> +I(1,Hi)
7> +I(2,Hello)
7> +I(2,Hello)
{% endhighlight %}

Explain Tables
--------------

> The Table API provides a mechanism to explain the logical and optimized query plans to compute a `Table`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Table API provides a mechanism to explain the logical and optimized query plans used to compute a `Table`. 
```

> This is done through the `Table.explain()` method or `StatementSet.explain()` method. `Table.explain()`returns the plan of a `Table`. `StatementSet.explain()` returns the plan of multiple sinks. It returns a String describing three plans:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done through the `Table.explain()` and `StatementSet.explain()` methods. `Table.explain()`returns the plan for a `Table`. `StatementSet.explain()` returns the plan for multiple sinks. These methods return a String describing three things:
```

1. the Abstract Syntax Tree of the relational query, i.e., the unoptimized logical query plan,
2. the optimized logical query plan, and
3. the physical execution plan.

> `TableEnvironment.explain_sql()` and `TableEnvironment.execute_sql()` support execute a `EXPLAIN` statement to get the plans, Please refer to [EXPLAIN]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/sql/explain.html) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TableEnvironment.explain_sql()` and `TableEnvironment.execute_sql()` support executing an `EXPLAIN` statement to get the plans. Please refer to the [EXPLAIN]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/sql/explain.html) page for more details.
```

The following code shows how to use the `Table.explain()` method:

{% highlight python %}

> # using stream table environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# using a stream table environment
```

== Physical Execution Plan ==
Stage 133 : Data Source
        content : Source: PythonInputFormatTableSource(id, data)

        Stage 134 : Operator
                content : SourceConversion(table=[default_catalog.default_database.Unregistered_TableSource_201907291, source: [PythonInputFormatTableSource(id, data)]], fields=[id, data])
                ship_strategy : FORWARD

                Stage 135 : Operator
                        content : Calc(select=[id, data], where=[(data LIKE _UTF-16LE'H%')])
                        ship_strategy : FORWARD

Stage 136 : Data Source
        content : Source: PythonInputFormatTableSource(id, data)

        Stage 137 : Operator
                content : SourceConversion(table=[default_catalog.default_database.Unregistered_TableSource_1709623525, source: [PythonInputFormatTableSource(id, data)]], fields=[id, data])
                ship_strategy : FORWARD

{% endhighlight %}

The following code shows how to use the `StatementSet.explain()` method:

{% highlight python %}

> # using stream table environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# using a stream table environment
```

The tables and views created via SQL DDL, e.g. "create table ..." and "create view ..." are also stored in a catalog.

You can directly access the tables in a catalog via SQL.

If you want to use tables from a catalog with the Table API, you can use the "from_path" method to create the Table API objects:

{% highlight python %}

# prepare the catalog
# register Table API tables in the catalog
table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
table_env.create_temporary_view('source_table', table)

# create Table API table from catalog
new_table = table_env.from_path('source_table')
new_table.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
   id   data
0   1     Hi
1   2  Hello
{% endhighlight %}

{% top %}

Write Queries
-------------

### Writing Table API Queries

The `Table` object offers many methods for applying relational operations. 
These methods return new `Table` objects representing the result of applying the relational operations on the input `Table`. 
These relational operations may be composed of multiple method calls, such as `table.group_by(...).select(...)`.

> The [Table API]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/tableApi.html?code_tab=python) documentation describes all Table API operations that are supported on streaming and batch tables.

Reviewer 2: Two link styles are used. Could you unify them and only use **link xxx.md** in all the places.

table = table_env.from_elements([(1, 'Hi'), (2, 'Hello')], ['id', 'data'])
table_env.create_temporary_view("simple_source", table)
table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE first_sink_table (
        id BIGINT, 
        data VARCHAR 
    ) WITH (
        'connector' = 'print'
    )
""")
table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE second_sink_table (
        id BIGINT, 
        data VARCHAR
    ) WITH (
        'connector' = 'print'
    )
""")

# create a statement set
statement_set = table_env.create_statement_set()

# emit the "table" object to the "first_sink_table"
statement_set.add_insert("first_sink_table", table)

# emit the "simple_source" to the "second_sink_table" via a insert sql query
statement_set.add_insert_sql("INSERT INTO second_sink_table SELECT * FROM simple_source")

# execute the statement set
statement_set.execute().get_job_client().get_job_execution_result().result()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
7> +I(1,Hi)
7> +I(1,Hi)
7> +I(2,Hello)
7> +I(2,Hello)
{% endhighlight %}

Explain Tables
--------------

The Table API provides a mechanism to explain the logical and optimized query plans used to compute a `Table`. 

> This is done through the `Table.explain()` and `StatementSet.explain()` methods. `Table.explain()`returns the plan for a `Table`. `StatementSet.explain()` returns the plan for multiple sinks. These methods return a String describing three things:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is done through the `Table.explain()` or `StatementSet.explain()` methods. `Table.explain()`returns the plan of a `Table`. `StatementSet.explain()` returns the plan for multiple sinks. These methods return a string describing three things:
```

1. the Abstract Syntax Tree of the relational query, i.e., the unoptimized logical query plan,
2. the optimized logical query plan, and
3. the physical execution plan.

`TableEnvironment.explain_sql()` and `TableEnvironment.execute_sql()` support executing an `EXPLAIN` statement to get the plans. Please refer to the [EXPLAIN]({{ site.baseurl }}/dev/table/sql/explain.html) page for more details.

The following code shows how to use the `Table.explain()` method:

{% highlight python %}

# using a StreamTableEnvironment

> from pyflink.table import EnvironmentSettings, StreamTableEnvironment

Reviewer 2: Add an empty line between the import statements and the code body.

---

> title: "10 Minutes to Table API"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "10 Minutes to Python Table API"
```

> title: "10 Minutes to Python Table API"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Intro to the Python Table API"
```

nav-parent_id: python_tableapi
nav-pos: 25
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

> This document is a short introduction to PyFlink Table API, which is used to help novice users quickly understand the basic usage of PyFlink Table API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is a short introduction to the PyFlink Table API, which is used to help novice users quickly understand the basic usage of PyFlink Table API.
```

{% highlight text %}
By default the type of the "id" column is int64.
Now the type of the "id" column is int8.
{% endhighlight %}

### Create using a Connector

You can create a Table using connector DDL:

{% highlight python %}
# create a blink stream TableEnvironment
from pyflink.table import EnvironmentSettings, StreamTableEnvironment

env_settings = EnvironmentSettings.new_instance().in_streaming_mode().use_blink_planner().build()
table_env = StreamTableEnvironment.create(environment_settings=env_settings)

table_env.execute_sql("""
    CREATE TABLE random_source (
        id BIGINT, 
        data TINYINT 
    ) WITH (
        'connector' = 'datagen',
        'fields.id.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.id.start'='1',
        'fields.id.end'='3',
        'fields.data.kind'='sequence',
        'fields.data.start'='4',
        'fields.data.end'='6'
    )
""")
table = table_env.from_path("random_source")
table.to_pandas()

{% endhighlight %}

The result is:

{% highlight text %}
   id  data
0   2     5
1   1     4
2   3     6
{% endhighlight %}

### Create using a Catalog

A `TableEnvironment` maintains a map of catalogs of tables which are created with an identifier.

> The tables in a catalog may either be temporary, and tied to the lifecycle of a single Flink session, or permanent, and visible across multiple Flink sessions and clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tables in a catalog may either be temporary, and tied to the lifecycle of a single Flink session, or permanent, and visible across multiple Flink sessions.
```
